Nanzan is not so much a single institution as a complex of educational
establishments gathered under the organizational umbrella of what is
known as Nanzan Gakuen. This educational complex consists of an
elementary school and three junior and senior high schools, in
addition to the University and its research institutes and campus
study centers. All of these institutions were founded either by the
Divine Word Missionaries or the Missionary Sisters of the Holy Spirit.

The Nanzan motto “For Human Dignity” identifies Nanzan as an
institution whose point of departure is an interest in the human being
and whose goal is a fuller awareness of each person’s God-given
dignity.

The Divine Word Missionaries, an international Catholic religious
congregation of priests and brothers, are active in education
throughout Asia at all levels. Their combined establishments, which
include universities in the Philippines, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan,
Indonesia, and Japan, serve a total of more 400,000 students.

The Nanzan schools are located in the rolling hills overlooking
metropolitan Nagoya and in the nearby cities of Toyota and Seto on the
outskirts of Nagoya. Nagoya boasts a proud history. The famous shogun,
Ieyasu Tokugawa, was a native of the area and it was in Nagoya that he
built a great castle for his ninth son.

Today the Greater Nagoya area is home to well over 7 million people,
to whom the name “Nanzan” is a household word. And Nanzan is
especially dedicated to serving the educational needs of young men and
women in this region of Japan.

From modest beginnings as a College of Foreign Languages in 1946,
Nanzan took the small step to a single Faculty of Arts and Letters in
1949 and has since grown into a fully-fledged university with a
worldwide reputation for academic excellence. With the addition in
April 2000 of the Faculty of Policy Studies and the Faculty of
Mathematical Sciences and Information Engineering, now known as
Faculty of Information Sciences and Engineering at the new campus at
Seto, and in April 2011 Nanzan Junior College moving into Nanzan
University, the University now has seven faculties, one junior college
and a total of thirteen research centers and institutes, reflecting
its international outlook, the Center for International Education was
set up to coordinate Nanzan’s various exchange and overseas programs,
including the Center for Japanese Studies’ language program. Nanzan is
constantly assessing ways to expand its mission further.

Committed to free inquiry and responsible scholarship, the University
has the advantage of a low student-teacher ratio. Small classes and
seminars provide an effective setting for interpersonal communication
through which human dignity becomes a lived experience and an
international outlook develops naturally. University enrolment is
presently over 10,000.

Though ecumenical in the sense that the Christian faith is not a
prerequisite for entry, Nanzan University still maintains its Catholic
orientation. All undergraduate students are required to study
Christian thought, which is in fact an introduction to the culture and
thought of the Western world. Far from being a Westernizing influence,
though, these classes offer Japanese students a view of the outside
world while enhancing their respect for their own culture.

The international atmosphere at Nanzan owes much to the large
proportion of foreign-born and foreign-educated faculty members,
beginning with Divine Word missionaries hailing from eleven different
nations. Thus, the faculty is truly international in every sense of
the word.
